One of the most common reasons 
students study with us at E2 is  

that they're moving to an English speaking 
country, they might be heading to the UK,  

Canada or Australia. And a lot of times 
they want to get jobs. So in this video,  

I'm going to show you how you can write a resume 
that you can use to apply for any type of job.  

So in this video, we're going to cover six 
important steps to writing a great resume.  

First, we review the organisation or order of 
the resume, then we focus on accomplishments.  

After that, we highlight relevant experience, 
then we include unpaid experience. Next,  

we need to know our employer. And finally, 
we check for grammatical errors and typos.  

Don't worry if you can't remember all of 
that, we're going to look at each step in  

much more detail. Before we do feel free to 
download a sample resume from the description  

of this video. This resume incorporates the six 
steps that we're going to look at in this video,  

you might find it helpful to look at when you're 
writing your CV. Let's look at the first step to  

writing a great resume. organising the order of 
your resume. Your resume might look like this,  

it will start with a brief summary. As you can see 
here, I've described myself and my goals, then we  

put our work experience. Now here you can see 
that it is in chronological order. But I've got  

bullet points under each section that goes into 
detail about duties and accomplishments I've had.  

Next we might include our education. And you can 
see some of the details I've got here. And in the  

end, you can see we've got a few extra sections. 
These parts will potentially change depending on  

your circumstances. Alternatively, it could look 
like this if you need to highlight your education  

over experience. This might be in a situation 
where you've got a degree in your field, but not  

a lot of work experience. Keep in mind, different 
countries have different customs when it comes to  

resumes. In some countries, it's fine. In fact, 
it's necessary to include a photo in your CV.  

But in many countries like Canada or Australia, 
unless you are asked to do so, you generally don't  

put a photo on a resume. There are similar rules 
for whether or not to include if you're married.  

Whatever country you're in, it's best to do a 
bit of research first. If you're not sure what  

information should be included or excluded, that 
isn't directly related to the job, ask a friend  

you trust or give it a quick Google search. Step 
number two, focus on accomplishments over duties.  

Now, you can see in the sample CV that 
we've got, in our work experience,  

we have some bullet points. The recruiter might 
only look quickly at the CV, you want these bullet  

points to show the most important information 
first. Now, if you're say, a senior programmer  

or an experienced professional, you'll definitely 
want to show what specific things you achieved.  

Did you help the company increase reach sales or 
customer satisfaction? You want to show that. But  

if you're looking for work in a restaurant or 
other entry level positions, you're probably  

not going to have that kind of experience, or 
a need to show it. In that case, showing your  

duties and responsibilities might create a better 
picture. Step three, be sure to highlight relevant  

experiences. This one is key. Now, let's say 
you're applying for a job that requires you  

to have a range of skills that don't always go 
together. You could do something like this, add a  

section to the top of your resume that shows this 
range of skills and some of your accomplishments.  

Now I remember one time I was applying for a role 
that required foreign language proficiency writing  

experience proofreading and editing skills and 
into teaching skills. These skills aren't always  

found in one single position. So I added a 
section like this to the top of my resume.  

You can see that I've got a few skills and 
accomplishments put together here. And this can  

really help recruiters or business owners decide 
if your resume deserves a little extra attention.  

Remember, some recruiters or managers are 
only going to look at your resume for a  

few seconds. This really helps you get closer 
to that interview. Let's move on. Step four,  

include unpaid experience. I'm surprised how 
often I have to remind people of this. One of  

the questions I always ask students is about 
volunteer experience. A lot of people have  

experience, tutoring or coaching that they forget 
to include or that they don't think is important.  

One student I had years ago, wanted to volunteer 
at the Olympics. And I pressed him for information  

about this experience or volunteer work, and 
finally managed to find out that he had been  

a swimming instructor at his local community 
centre for years. After some persuasion, he  

added it to his resume. And after the interview, 
and after getting the position, he told me that  

the interviewer actually circled the experience 
while reviewing his resume during the interview.  

So remember, don't forget to include relevant 
unpaid experience. Next step number five, know  

the employer. This step will help you with step 
three. If you know a few things about the place  

you want to work, you can make your CV stand out 
a little bit more. What is it about that company?  

What have they done that you think is interesting 
or important? Is there anything you can modify in  

your CV to show that you are interested in that? 
Make sure that the recruiter or business owner  

knows that you have a specific interest in the job 
with them, and not with other places. If you are  

applying at a few different companies, make sure 
each resume matches the specific place, not just  

the type of job you're looking for. You should 
not be giving the exact same CV to three different  

companies. Here's the last step number six check 
for typos and grammatical errors. Obvious one I  

know. But you'd be surprised how many typos and 
grammar mistakes end up in a resume. Whether  

you're a native speaker or not, this happens a 
lot. Now, most business owners or HR staff will be  

tolerant of one mistake or maybe two. But if it's 
a big mistake, or they happen a lot, it's going to  

reduce the chances of you getting that phone call 
for an interview. So make sure that someone you  

trust reviews your resume, it could be a friend or 
a colleague at work or an advisor at your school.  

So let's review the six steps. Step one, organise 
your resume, carefully decide what you are going  

to include, and in what order. Step two, include 
and prioritise your accomplishments. But remember,  

if it's an entry level job, showing 
your past duties and responsibilities  

at a previous type of job should be okay. 
Step three, highlight relevant experiences,  

clearly demonstrate the particular skills required 
for the certain position you're applying for.  

Step four, include unpaid experience, this could 
be previous volunteer work, don't forget to  

include it. Step five. Know the employer. If your 
CV looks like it could be given to three different  

companies in a similar industry, it won't stand 
out. Finally, step six, check for typos and  

grammatical errors. And that's it. Keep in mind 
that wherever you go in the world, there may be  

different cultural practices that you need to be 
aware of, and different ways of applying for jobs.  

But I hope you got some good ideas from this. 
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, and  

download the sample resume from the description 
below. And I'll see you in the next video.

